Dear Steve,

Building RPM 4.0.4 was relatively easy, I only had to modify
db3/configure to configure correctly and lib/signature.c slightly to
get it to compile correctly. I also built the BerkeleyDB package
provided in the RPM distribution. Although I don't agree with the
decision to fix a specific BerkeleyDB distribution to a specific
version of RPM, I have noticed that they do sometimes hack the db
distribution to work with RPM.

I used the following packages from your site to provide the
development environment:

gawk-3.1.0-sol8-sparc-local.gz
gcc-2.95.3-sol8-sparc-local.gz
gettext-0.10.37-sol8-sparc-local.gz
grep-2.5-sol8-sparc-local.gz
libiconv-1.6.1-sol8-sparc-local.gz
libtool-1.4-sol8-sparc-local.gz
m4-1.4-sol8-sparc-local.gz
make-3.79.1-sol8-sparc-local.gz
patch-2.5.4-sol8-sparc-local.gz

I then applied the included patch to change db3/configure and
lib/signature.c. 

patch -p0 < rpm.patch

After that I could configure and make the package.

configure --without-python
make

I don't have anything against python, I just don't use it yet.

Packaging the RPM distribution required that I use installwatch to get
an accurate list of the installation files. The installwatch program
included in the checkinstall package
(http://asic-linux.com.mx/~izto/checkinstall/index.php) allows you to
create a directory tree containing only the files installed by the
install step, without having to go to the trouble of creating a chroot
environment. I've included a patch to checkinstall so that it will
build on Solaris. I also include a perl script called solpkg.pl to
create this tree of the installed files. I'd like to integrate
make_package into this process at some point.

solpkg.pl make install-strip

After getting the directory with the installed files in it, I cd to
that directory and create the depend, postinstall, preremove,
postremove and copyright file at the top of the directory tree. I then
run a modified version of make_package to create the package.


